Update ruby.md (#10581)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/ruby.md

kind: documentation
description: 'Connect your Ruby logs and traces to correlate them in Datadog.'
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/request-log-correlation/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Correlate request logs with traces automatically'
---

## Trace correlation

In many cases, such as logging, it may be useful to correlate trace IDs to other events or data streams, for easier cross-referencing.

### For logging in Rails applications

#### Automatic

For Rails applications using the default logger (`ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging`) or `lograge`, you can automatically enable trace correlation injection by setting the `rails` instrumentation configuration option `log_injection` to `true` or by setting environment variable `DD_LOGS_INJECTION=true`:

```ruby
# config/initializers/datadog.rb
require 'ddtrace'

Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.use :rails, log_injection: true
end
```

> _Note:_ For `lograge` users who have also defined `lograge.custom_options` in an `initializers/lograge.rb` configuration file, due to the order that Rails loads initializers (alphabetical), automatic trace correlation may not take effect, since `initializers/datadog.rb` would be overwritten by the `initializers/lograge.rb` initializer. To support automatic trace correlation with _existing_ `lograge.custom_options`, use the [Manual (Lograge)](#manual-lograge) configuration below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** For `lograge` users who have also defined `lograge.custom_options` in an `initializers/lograge.rb` configuration file, because Rails loads initializers in alphabetical order, automatic trace correlation may not take effect, since `initializers/datadog.rb` would be overwritten by the `initializers/lograge.rb` initializer. To support automatic trace correlation with _existing_ `lograge.custom_options`, use the [Manual (Lograge)](#manual-lograge) configuration below.
```

end
```

#### Manual (ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging)

> Rails applications which are configured with the default `ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging` logger can append correlation IDs as tags to log output. To enable Trace Correlation with `ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging`, in your Rails environment configuration file, add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails applications that are configured with the default `ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging` logger can append correlation IDs as tags to log output. To enable Trace Correlation with `ActiveSupport::TaggedLogging`, in your Rails environment configuration file, add the following:
```

Datadog.tracer.trace('my.operation') { logger.warn('This is a traced operation.') }
# [2019-01-16 18:38:41 +0000][my_app][WARN][dd.env=production dd.service=billing-api dd.version=2.5.17 dd.trace_id=8545847825299552251 dd.span_id=3711755234730770098] This is a traced operation.
```
## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_collection/ruby/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /logs/log_collection/ruby/
```
